# TelCo Customer Churn Prediction

The core objective is predicting customer churn behavior for the TelCo Company. TelCo Company currently has no data-driven and quantitatively-based prediction model. Our team will develop machine learning models, using a 7043-observation (customer) with 20 predictors dataset. The model will be a supervised, binary classification model, since we have a clear binary target variable, churn or no churn. To achieve the optimal outcome, our team will both manually build machine learning models in Python and develop an Auto Machine Learning Model in H20.ai. The core performance will be measured in terms of the Recall Score. Because the underlying assumption is that TeleCo wants to minimize customer churn rate. To do so, the best model used will be the one that maximized the recall score. 

After the optimal model was chosen and picked, it will be run offline periodically (at most once a day). In other words, the prediction model will build on a batch processing system using Apache Spark, which takes a large amount of input data, runs the pickled prediction model to process it, and produces the prediction outcome. The minimum performance needed for the model is that the recall score is higher than 0.5. Another assumption is that TeleCo has millions of consumers. Therefore, even a marginal improvement from 0.5, such as 0.01 increase, will provide a significant increase in customer retention, revenue, and net operating income. 

Our model will be used by the marketing and consumer retention team so that they could intervene early by either offering targeted online offers and coupons, or having representatives phoning those consumers who are predicted to churn. Also, the model explainability report will be used by middle-level managers to gain insights on the factor that both positively and negatively contribute to the churn rate so they could address such factors accordingly. 

